ut Miüsov fancied that it was all
done with intentional impressiveness. He stood in front of the other
visitors. He ought—he had reflected upon it the evening before—from
simple politeness, since it was the custom here, to have gone up to
receive the elder’s blessing, even if he did not kiss his hand. But
when he saw all this bowing and kissing on the part of the monks he
instantly changed his mind. With dignified gravity he made a rather
deep, conventional bow, and moved away to a chair. Fyodor Pavlovitch
did the same, mimicking Miüsov like an ape. Ivan bowed with great
dignity and courtesy, but he too kept his hands at his sides, while
Kalganov was so confused that he did not bow at all. The elder let fall
the hand raised to bless them, and bowing to them again, asked them all
to sit down. The blood rushed to Alyosha’s cheeks. He was ashamed. His
forebodings were coming true.

Father Zossima sat down on a very old‐fashioned mahogany sofa, covered
with leather, and made his visitors sit down in a row along the
opposite wall on four mahogany chairs, covered with shabby black
leather. The monks sat, one at the door and the other at the window.
The divinity student, the novice, and Alyosha remained standing. The
cell was not very large and had a faded look. It contained nothing but
the most necessary furniture, of coarse and poor quality. There were
two pots 